More people nowadays tend to visit places where conditions are harsh. The purpose of this paper is to take a close look at the benefits of this issue; moreover, this essay will present a social perspective in examining drawbacks to this trend.

To begin, the phenomenon of trevelling to difficult places can be attributed to a number of advantages. An experience in getting through challenging nature environments can lead us to have solid soul and body. People would rainforce their mental health during overcoming difficult conditions in the wild. Moreover, the momory in such places lasts long through the life, stories in desert or Antarctic will live in the treveller's mind as endless footages.

On the other hand, along with the benefits mentioned above, it is important to discuss the negative aspects to this trend. For one, it is dangerous. people in modern world have got used to be provided. We always can go to grossory store or convenience store in order to buy the essential goods such as water, meal and fruits. It is not very easy to be prepared living without such supplies. When I had lost the way to go my house in a mountain, for example, I was a 10 or 11 year old boy and I could not drink or eat anything over six hours because I had not been trained in such skills in the wild. Furthermore, it is expensive. Places such as Antartic, space stations and deserts cannot be accessed without fortune so only few are able to take the benefits to buy gears and tickets of the limited places and even more limited technologies.

By and large, there seems to be various benefis to this trend, top of which are experiencing exclusive nature environments and posessing tremendous memories. However, the drawbacks can be explained with the danger and the expense which are both huge.
