The issue on building houses or apartments in the countryside has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. While many say it should be baned to protect their nature or environment, this paper will argue that constructing buildings or homes in the rural area could be beneficial for us.

To begin, those who believe that developing the countryside will destroy the culture and the environment in that area base their view on the negative effects. There would be few changes after developing but those changes should not only be bad. People who live in the area will be able to have better infrastructure including hospitals, education facilitis and sport centres; these are bright sides not destoying results.

Moreover, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the problems in the arban area. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that the cities cannot manage the growing population any longer. Surging population causes many issues in the big cities, people cannot afford the house prices, medical and educational facilities are not adequate for the community's needs. If we consider that the children live in both urban and rural areas are in the situation of the lack of school infrastructure, we can easly see that the solution of the issue is that providing better quantity and quality of living spaces in the country side.

By and large, I am of the belief that we should build many homes and infrastructure in the rural area for the reason that solving the problems from increasing population in the city areas and providing better and more convenient services for the countryside community. 
