The issue on tertiary education has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at subsidising higher learning; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining arguments for it.

To begin, those who believe that paying for university education is reasonable base their view on a number of arguments. First and foremost, the most obvious is the fact that it has become possible for students who consume finances for university education to utilise good standard equipment and facilities for learning. This means that such individuals are able to use modern tools and comfortable classrooms for training. In addition, another argument that needs to be mentioned is the fact that learners who pay for costly tuition fees receive motivation to study hard. Case in point, such people can think failing course could be a waste to fortune.

On the other hand, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the other side of this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that there are those who support the notion that public funding of higher learning is also understandable. The most obvious for this belief is the fact that students who are under poverty can have equal opportunities to attend university. If we consider the case of young people who graduate can become professionals such as doctors and lawyers, we can see that this view is logical. In relation to this, it follows that they can have higher income, stable careers and better life. Thus, we can assume that this belief is based on a logical argument.

By and large, there seems to be equally compelling arguments on either side of this issue which are supported by substantial reasons. However, I am of the belief that government funding of tertiary education is more logical for the reason that having chances to enrol university is more significant in society.

