The issue on fashion has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at the factors of this issue; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining pros and cons of this trend.

To begin, the phenomenon of growing influence of fashion trend can be attributed to a number of reasons. First and foremost, the most obvious is the fact that it has become possible for the young generation to be keen to share their daily photographs on the Internet in modern times. This means that such individuals can be instantly affected by others' fashion styles all over the world. Ultimately, this can lead to a rapid spread of the newest fashion trend in a global scale.

On the one hand, one benefit that needs to be mentioned is the fact that people around the globe are getting closer to each others thanks to such phenomenon. Case in point, people in developing and developed countries are demonstrating their styles and imitating others. As an effect, this can strengthen international solidarity among mankind.

On the other hand, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the drawbacks to this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that citizens may be loosing their own identities. In other words, many parts of the world disregard their traditions and distinct styles that have been inherited from prior generations due to this trend. To illustrate, nowadays the youth in many countries do not wear their traditional clothes which was common in the past in various occasions.

By and large, there seems to be various causes to this trend, top of which is a growing usage rate of the Internet. While this can result in the unity of the globe, preserving identities and customs need to be taken into consideration.
