Many big cities in the globe suffer from heavy traffic jam. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at the factors of this issue; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining measures to this trend.

Growing number of people who migrate to big cities from rural areas could be considered to a significant reason of the issue. As a quantity of the private transport increases, the limited land spaces of towns are getting struggle with covering the individuals needs. It also has become possible for lots of individuals to have their own cars even if they do not essentially need to be car owners. This can be explained mainly by the poor public transportation services as well as the cheap cost of possessing private vehicles.

On the other hand, along with the reasons that mentioned above, it is important to consider the solutions to this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the possibility that the government should offer people to spread out from centralised residing area. In other words, businesses should provide various jobs to workers who can stay suburbs, states need to provide satisfactory infrastructures for the residents of rural areas so that living in those area would be beneficial as well as living near town centres.

In the big cities furthermore, improving the quality and quantity of public transport is imminent and it would bring the most practical affect. Public officials should discuss with this measure to ease the problem efficiently. Another thing that needs to be mentioned is the fact that national leaders should consider the methods of decreasing the number of private cars such as introducing higher tax, tolls in city centre, or encouraging citizens to use public transport services.

By and large, there seems to be various reasons of this trend, top of which are exploding city population and growing number of car owners. However the solutions are building advanced living environments outside of cities and restricting individuals from using private vehicles in cities.
