The pressure from parents toward their children has been increasing in modern world. I argue that the phenomenon would not be beneficial in our society. This essay will indicate what caused this and show why this is a negative development.

The range of professions has been extremely expanding in contemporary society, which makes people expect that it is getting difficult to adapt to the rapid change of next generation's requirements. Many parents thus want to make their children be fully prepared for the coming environment. Media also significantly affects them as it provides numerous contents about successful career examples such as top-class sports stars, researchers and celebrities. Adults often desire their dreams to be real through offsprings.

However, expectations easily go too high. The pressures tend to be involved with making good financial resources and this leads to uniformed purpose of life for younger generation. Money, which must not be only standard of success, has undeniably been getting heavier aspect in life.

In addition, facing higher pressure does not mean acquisition of competitive skills. Situations sometimes could be worsening, the children who were in severe pressure have chosen to run away from the expectations that they would never reach. They could develop depressions from their failure which are occupying new type of social disease.

By and large, there seems to be reasons of this issue, top of which are increasing the complexity of career forms and the impact of media contents. I am of the belief that this results negatively in society for the reasons that the pressures cause misleading of success and depression among the youth.