The issue on co-education has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at learning in single-gender school; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining learning in mixed-gender facility.

To begin, those who believe that students should study in single-gender school base their view on a number of arguments. First and foremost, the most obvious is the fact that it has become possible for young learners could face higher competition in mixed-gender situation. This means that boys and girls tend to achieve outcomes in different pace and show conflicting interests in various aspects. In addition, another argument that needs to be mentioned is that staff or teachers are able to manage students and organise curriculum easily in a single-gender situation.

On the other hand, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the other side of this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that there are those who support the notion that the youth should be taught in co-educational institution. The most obvious reason for this belief is that students can practice the small society that resembles a one that they will face soon. If we consider that the both gender competition can reflect our real world, we can see that this view is logical.

By and large, there seems to be equally compelling arguments on either side of this issue, which are supported by substantial reasons. However, I am of the belief that the younger generation must be trained in co-educational school for the reason that they should build skills for real world is more significant in society.
