The issue on abode has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at residing in a household continuously; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining occupying various residences.

To begin, those who believe that living in the same place is reasonable base their view on a number of arguments. First and foremost, the most obvious is the fact that it has become possible for residents who dwell in the same domicile to establish relationship with neighbours in modern times. This means that such individuals able to provide assistance to each other such as during emergencies or disasters. In addition, another argument that needs to be mentioned is the fact that house owners who stay in the same residence continuously build up a sense of community. Case in point, such people can volunteer the local area or participate in charity groups.

On the other hand, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the other side of this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that there are those who support the notion that occupying a range of houses is also understandable. The obvious reason for this belief is the fact that occupants who live in various places conserve time and financial resources from commuting. If we consider the case of workers who migrate near their workplace and students who relocate close to their educational facility, we can see that this view is logical. In relation to this, it follows that such individuals can have convenience and more free time. Thus, we can assume that this belief is based on a logical argument.

By and large, there seems to be equally compelling arguments on either side of this issue, which are supported by substantial reasons. However, I am of the belief that residing in different places is more logical for the reason that having convenience and more spare time is more significant in society.
