The issue on shopping has been receiving an increasing level of attention from contemporary society. The purpose of this essay is to take a close look at shopping in shopping centres; moreover, this paper will present a social perspective in examining shopping in local markets.

To begin, those who prefer buying goods in shopping centres base their view on a number of arguments. First and foremost, the most obvious is the fact that it has become possible for people to find various kind of items in one building in modern times. This means that individuals who do not want spend a long time on shopping are able to buy groceries, clothing and office supplies in short time. In addition, another argument that needs to be mentioned is the fact that customers in shopping complex will get a refund if any defect presented.

On the other hand, along with the previous arguments, it is important to consider the other side of this issue. For one, it would be unreasonable to ignore the fact that there are those who support the notion that customers should purchase products in local markets. The most obvious reason is the fact that local markets offer reasonable prices. If we consider that small grocery marts do not package items more than needs, we can see that this view is logical. In relation to this, it follows that such markets will discount prices as much they could save the expenses of containers and labours. Thus, we can assume that this belief is based on a logical argument.

By and large, there seems to be equally compelling arguments on either side of this issue, which are supported by substantial reasons. However, I am of the belief that purchasing in local markets is recommended for customers for the reason that neighbour markets offer cheaper prices is more significant for households.
