os/mac/mac.keyboard-shortcut.md, before:

# MacOS Shortcuts

Update shortcuts: System preferences - Keyboard - Shortcuts

- keyboard input language: Input Sources - remove `Select the previous input source`.

## common

```
spotlight: cmd + ctrl + space
screenshot tool: cmd + shift + 5
previous keyboard input: <N/A> for code completion in IDEs
next keyboard input: ctrl + option + space
```

Copy and Paste:

```
Paste from history (Maccy): shift cmd + V
Paste and match style: opt shift cmd + V
```

Windows:

```
Close current app: cmd + Q
Close current window: cmd + W
```

## control panel

```
Show details: opt + shift + mouse Click
```

## finder

```
view hidden items: cmd + shift + .
```

## window, desktop

```
full screen / cancel full screen: ctrl + cmd + f
show all open windows: ctrl + up, 4 finger up (cancel: ctrl + down, 4 finger down)
show open windows in same app: ctrl + down (cancel: ctrl + up)
zoom in: cmd + +
zoom out: cmd + -
zoom in-out (trackpad): gesture
Move to next window between same applications: cmd + ` (cmd + shift + `)
```

## cursor

```
end of line: cmd + right
beginning of line: cmd + left
```

## "Wants to open Send File to Bluetooth device"

Turn off the shortcut: settings - keyboard - shortcuts - service - Send File to Bluetooth device.

## Edit

```
Mac emoji keyboard with shortcuts: cmd + ctrl + space
```

Commit message:

docs: add shortcut for moving to next tab in browser on macOS

os/mac/mac.keyboard-shortcut.md, after:

# MacOS Shortcuts

Update shortcuts: System preferences - Keyboard - Shortcuts

- keyboard input language: Input Sources - remove `Select the previous input source`.

## common

```
spotlight: cmd + ctrl + space
screenshot tool: cmd + shift + 5
previous keyboard input: <N/A> for code completion in IDEs
next keyboard input: ctrl + option + space
```

Copy and Paste:

```
Paste from history (Maccy): shift cmd + V
Paste and match style: opt shift cmd + V
```

Windows:

```
Close current app: cmd + Q
Close current window: cmd + W
```

## control panel

```
Show details: opt + shift + mouse Click
```

## finder

```
view hidden items: cmd + shift + .
```

## window, desktop

```
full screen / cancel full screen: ctrl + cmd + f
show all open windows: ctrl + up, 4 finger up (cancel: ctrl + down, 4 finger down)
show open windows in same app: ctrl + down (cancel: ctrl + up)
zoom in: cmd + +
zoom out: cmd + -
zoom in-out (trackpad): gesture
Move to next window between same applications: cmd + ` (cmd + shift + `)
Move to next tab in browser: cmd + option + arrow
```

## cursor

```
end of line: cmd + right
beginning of line: cmd + left
```

## "Wants to open Send File to Bluetooth device"

Turn off the shortcut: settings - keyboard - shortcuts - service - Send File to Bluetooth device.

## Edit

```
Mac emoji keyboard with shortcuts: cmd + ctrl + space
```
